There were other people,
I need to get that off now,
there were other people who have lived in
Church and Road before us.
Actually, Grezna last time explained that
her wedding was there, and there was
Linda Williams who lived there with her
little son at the time when we visited
from Switzerland,
much long before we actually
started to live in Church and Road.
And this was not planned at all actually,
it was one of this lila or shrimataji.
We were living in South London
and I was actually nine months pregnant
with my twins.
And we were about to buy a little house
in North London
and then it fell through when it just
didn't happen.
And people in in Sajja Yoga
were really desperate to to fill
the ashram of Church and Road because
Linda didn't get any rent and this house
actually
was not looked after.
And that was, as you know, it's a
milestone of Sajja Yoga
in England, but Shrimataji gave it
a lot of importance. She put the
foundation stone herself in the
garden at the entrance of the house.
So it was an important building.
However, the state of Church and Road
when we moved in was
less than comfortable. It was
actually, how can I describe it?
Well, I'll give you a little description.
The wallpaper was peeling off the walls
in many rooms.
The carpets were torn apart and under
the carpet
to kind of not have humidity. They had
put some old newspaper
and you can imagine as a Swiss woman
arriving there, I was horrified.
Although I knew it was an important place
and
I must say to be fair, the
meditation room was always magical
and it was a place out of the world, I
would say. It was like, it could have been
in India,
it could have been in Italy, anywhere.
It was a special place. The
meditation room was
very special. Actually, Shrimataji had
been there a lot of time
before. Of course,
it was smaller than it is now because
Chris Marlow has done
extensive reparation to this house, thank
God, actually.
So, yes, for me, I can,
I felt a bit, yes, I am part of the dusty
foundation
and I have to be kind of
holding the building and with me
was this lovely Janet, Janet
Dredier,
who is a nurse, actually. She's a matron
now,
actually, and we were holding the fort
together,
of course, with our families. Our
husbands were also living there,
but I must say that the ones who were
really
working hard in the ashram were the
ladies
and it was really Krita Yuga, I must say.
In two years time, where we stayed there,
there was not
one minute where we were not doing
something.
It was relentless, either
with the children
or with a puja. I will explain a bit more.
So,
yes, with the uncomfort, I need to
also say one or two things because I
think it was a little bit of a test for
me because I
came from a very comfortable country.
For instance,
one winter, there was actually the
babies were really babies still.
They were like
six or seven months old and
there was no heating
in the bathroom, anyway, so I had to
organize
a little bath in our bedroom for the
babies, you know, well,
the three of them because you
couldn't bath
babies in a cold bathroom in winter. That
was not possible.
So, but one winter after they were
born, which was,
you know, in 1989,
there has been a big freeze and
at that point, the heating completely
collapsed
and so we had icicle on the window, which
was not double glazed.
We had icicle and it was
really freezing cold. I was a bit scared
that
about hypothermia for the children
and I phoned Hesta and I said, Hesta, can
we have some help
because we have absolutely no heating, no
radiators, nothing.
And she actually pulled around a lot of
people,
but nobody from London came over
and it was amazing because Bogdan
Šekovic
at that time was at Shudekam and he
was working as a doctor there in
Cambridge
and he came after his work at 11 o'clock
at night
with two big gas heater
for us, you know, to kind of
be able to survive
basically. So that was a story I do
remember.
It was just incredible, this story.
And then Pat, Greszna's husband, came, I
think, after two days to
properly repair this heating system
which was
really quite vétheust, you know, quite old.
So this is for the
kind of comfort of the place with
a whole, with our families, you know, we
were there with our little children.
So I think it was a tapasaya to
actually make things work
because there was no place
at that time where there would be
pujas or
meditation. I mean there might have been
a place
in Saint Martin's Lane where there
were meditation, etc.
But not a regular place like there is
now so many in England.
So we had
pujas every Sunday and we would cook a
soup for all the people who would come
to the pujas and we had bhajans
every Wednesday night and I was cooking
pasta for all the people who came,
which was around 30 people at least,
after I had put the babies to bed, so you
can imagine.
And Janet, bless her, was doing nights at
the time
on a Wednesday night, so I had also
put her little, I looked after her little
son as well
and she would come back in the morning.
So I was, you know, I was kind of in
charge of
of this bhajan session.
I let them do the washing up though, I
didn't do that.
So yes, it was just very, very,
very busy, very dynamic and
I think it was very good for
Saja Yuga Srimataji, he was very pleased
that we were there.
Sometimes it was quite challenging,
I must say,
and I told the story that I will
spell again because not many people were
there the last time.
I just tell the story where there was
little problems, I don't even remember
what it was in the ashram and Srimataji
called, she knows everything,
she called and she said, Antoinette, I would
like to see you.
So I said, oh my god, I haven't, I'm not
expecting that.
So I was really trying to look nice and
matching my tights to my skirt
and kind of running towards the tube
to get at Victoria.
They were living
at Victoria in an apartment at the time.
So I really hurried up there to arrive
at the time which was required to
come.
And a servant opened the door and
there I was introduced in the living
room of Srimataji
and I sat on the floor like I always
did. I used to love sitting at her feet
and she arrived in the room, I bowed down
to her
and I felt really so thirsty because I
had really run to be there.
And so the servant brought some tea
and the cup was there full of tea and
said, oh my goodness, I would love to drink
this tea now.
And of course I didn't
say anything and I was waiting for
Srimataji to have her tea.
And she read in my thoughts and she said,
have it, have your tea, you know. And I
said, thank you, Srimataji.
My throat was dry because I was
so thirsty.
So I had my cup of tea and then she
smiled at me and she said, Antoinette, you
don't need to
match your tights to your skirt.
And we laughed together, we really laughed
because I knew she knew everything and
she was going to
to sort out everything. And she did, she
said this beautiful sentence that I
remember
always and I think I said it to many
people because it's so helpful to know.
She said,
when there is a problem somewhere or a
difficult situation,
I let it develop and grow
until it reaches a climax
and like the wave of the ocean,
I come down, crash on the floor onto the
shore.
I come forcefully with my vibrations.
So I have always this image which is so
beautiful of
this kind of big wave that is there
and with Srimataji's attention kind of
when there is a difficult situation
and she comes forcefully with her
vibrations.
And for me, I kept that, you know,
throughout the whole time in Churcham
Road and
also afterwards in my life. I mean I had
so
many different instances also.
Also Srimataji reading our thoughts, I
mean I don't want to
to go too much outside Churcham Road but
I had several instances where she
was reading my thoughts.
Just a small example in Switzerland, I
was driving her in a car to a
program
and there were people
who were, there were bells ringing in the
church
and the people getting into the church
and I thought into in myself, I said oh
that's really funny.
They all go to church because they think
God is in the church and actually
God is sitting next to me. At that point
Srimataji turned her head towards me
and smiled and just
kind of a kissed, you know, with her
she just
read my thoughts, you know. It was so nice
yeah.
So yes,
what else? No, this, then it was creative
times as well.
Just a little parentage again, a
little bracket.
I had a little treat when I was there
after a while.
My friend Bridgette
was in Colombia at the time,
Yzik Nico who is also here
and she was organizing programs for
Srimataji to come into in Colombia.
So as a treat I was sent there to help
with the preparation etc.
And bless Janet Ridley, her mom was a
nurse, look kind of looking, knowing how
to look after small babies.
And she, they took them, the three of them
to her place somewhere in England, I
think it was
in Derbyshire, and they looked after these
babies for over a week
for me so that I could have a break. Can
you imagine?
So it was just wonderful, I mean it was
really nice.
It was like a little treat.
There was a lot, apart from the puja and
the bhaja, there was also quite a lot of
creativity
in in Shellsham Road. We had quite a few
meetings, we were receiving people in the
kitchen
because all the rooms were busy, we
didn't have a living room apart from a
meditation room.
But apart from having,
like now I think there's always a lot of
people coming and
chatting in the kitchen etc. But we also
did something,
Janet and I, we had started the year
before
doing a little play for Sri Mataji with
children.
That's how the plays have started. We
have started the play
for Sri Mataji with little children
first.
And the first was the River Thames,
you know, kind of
which was presented at Shudi Thames
actually with all the children
dancing with nursery rhymes. We changed
the words
of the nursery rhymes. And the second play
was about Sri Hanuman.
That was for a puja in Moghit.
And we did the whole kind of play with a...
And it was very nice because other yogi
helped with beautiful costume for
Hanuman,
for the little girls dancing, and we
choreographed
the dance for the girls. We did songs
etc.
And I must say Sri Mataji was very
delighted by that. I remember
watching her from the stage when we were
organizing the children and she had
really a smile. She was very
pleased.
So yes, we had these kind of creative
things.
And then, yeah, then I have not much more
to say.
Obviously from there we went to
Shudi Thames to present the babies to
Sri Mataji.
And Sri Mataji named them,
gave them their names at Shudi camps
when we were at Chelcham Road. So she
named the twins because the other one
already Mahadevi
had already got her name before, one year
before.
But she named them Bhakti and Shakti. So
she
held them, I remember, very well. We were
in Shudi camps.
I don't remember which puja, but it was
in the summer.
And she held them both in her arms, one
after the other.
And asked them for their
name and she gave small names so that we
could
actually call them together. Bhakti, Shakti,
you know, it's
easy to call these little children.
And Marilyn actually remembers that
very well as well. It was lovely.
One child after another in her arms and
naming them.
And they are really, one is really Shakti
and the other one is really Bhakti. They
have the qualities.
One has the quality of Shakti,
Shakti power.
The other one is really Bhakti, these
qualities.
It's very nice. So that's what I have
to say about
about Chelcham Road. I think that's what
I remember.
I didn't, actually these stories are just
in my memory. I didn't have time to write
them in my diary
because you can imagine I didn't have
time to write diaries at
that time. It was really Krita Yuga,
very, very busy work. And nevertheless you
remember them
very vividly and it's lovely to hear
these stories.
Yeah. I really don't envy you going into
Chelcham Road with all the wallpaper
falling off. No, no, but what, oh that's
nice that you remind me,
Maureen. I have to say, no, no, no, I have to
say that
Chris Marlowe did a wonderful job before
we arrived.
We bought some wallpaper and we bought
new woolen carpets for the, all the
upstairs and all the rooms
were re-wallpapered and it was actually,
and I made some curtains also because
there was no,
I mean there was hardly anything. So I
made some curtains for all our bedrooms
etc.
Very nice, thank you for remembering,
reminding me that.
So Chris Marlowe was doing that
completely with benevolence, completely
willingly.
He didn't ask for any money and, and then
he's the one
that Shri Mataji asked to buy the house,
you know.
And now of course the Chelcham Road
belongs to him
and it's now a Yuva Shakti Ashram and
and he's doing really well. He also
extended the place very much. He extended
the
the, the meditation room, he repaired the
kitchen,
he did two more bathrooms at the top
floor one
and he extended also the roof to make a
beautiful
bedroom at the top. So he did a lot of
work there and consolidated the roof,
did you know.
So it's a livable place and
actually
one Yuva Shakti said once to me, said
you know Antoinette, I know you were
there at another time and sometime when
I found difficult to climb all the
stairs with my little boy,
I remember if Antoinette could do it with
three babies I can do it with one.
Super and those babies were in mother's
arms at Shudi camps and given their
names which is
very, very sweet and of course leads us
on to
hearing from Greschner about Shudi camps
and her experience is there. So
thank you very much Antoinette, it's
always lovely to hear all your stories
and
no doubt there are plenty more for
another time.
Very welcome Maureen, yes thank you. Very sweet.
So Greschner can you take over from
there?
Shudi camp, when were you there,
what did you do, what happened? Well
I prepared a little presentation
really. So
the first part of presentation is the
history of Shudi camps
until it was bought by Shimetaji.
The second part is a short video
it's inauguration of Shudi camps.
This is very important video,
it's 10 minutes only when Shimetaji is
actually
expressing her joy
and she's so pleased. It's just a
wonderful video, she talks about
Shudi camps and the history a little bit
as well.
And the second part is I'm going to say
about our stay in Shudi camps and then
there will be photographs and then
Derek can comment on the photographs
and he can take over
everything. So I try to be very short so
he has plenty of time.
We still have one hour.
So Shruti have you got the information?
I was just, yeah I'm ready.
Greschner would you like me to
start the photo and you speak
simultaneously? That's how
would you like it like that?
Yes because first I will talk about
Shudi camps,
the history and when I
say video then if you can put the video
on.
They are only from the minute
second, minute two to the minute
12. And when Shimetaji
finishes speaking about, I mean the
whole video is about Shudi camps but
the most important things are in the
beginning.
Okay so I will start now.
Yeah just a minute so before we get
started thank you
Greschner. Greschner was kind enough to
share
almost 90 pictures so I apologize
because we were downloading all of them.
The sequence
Greschner might change a bit but as you
see it you will know what to say
and maybe one or two pictures might
come two times because
we just downloaded like we were going
crazy downloading all the photos.
So let me start sharing and I think we
can
just let me know if you see it okay. Is
that fine? That's where we start?
Yes okay. Yes but not to share now
to share later. Okay okay.
Because when I first we have the video
then I have
I have to say something about my stay in
Shudi camps how it all
about the August staying there and
everything and then at the end we share
the videos and then
Derek can comment on them. We share the
photos and then we
Derek can comment on them if that's okay.
So I will just start now about the
history of Shudi camps
because it's an old building.
Shudi camp it's called Shudi camps park
house actually the house
and it's a great two-listed building
and it was fundamentally
from 17th century later on
later on in 18th and 19th century
as some as there were some additions to
to the building
and it was built by
Malmadzic I don't know how to pronounce
Direl in about 1700
and remained with the family for three
generations so it's quite a long time
and it was it was sold in
1898. It was sold
to a person called
Arthur Gee who
later on he in in four years later he
died
and then the house was sold to
a vicar of Shudi camps
and a vicar who was also a
emeritus vicar of early cathedral
and in 1949
on his death it was requisitioned by
British army
and the house was occupied by the royal
air force
so until Shimataji bought the house
and he and each in the summer
in 1986 and
the house was the house
belonged to Shimataji
for about six years
and it was later on it was sold it was
beautifully
renovated that you have no when you see
the photographs you will see
what a difference and what a
what a difference it made. Yogi's
welcome the house and how beautifully
it looked after the renovation
because it was really in a in a quite
dilapidated state.
Later on it was later on it was both.
One question Breschner.
In 19
Breschner can I just ask one question?
Caroline you want to say something?
Yeah you said uh six years it was
bought in 86.
I went to a puja there in 1996 so that
must be 10 years isn't it?
19, 1992.
Well I went to a puja there in 1996.
Yeah yeah.
Oh if you did maybe so maybe it was
longer I don't know because I looked at
the records
and when it was actually there were
talks from Shubhi Kamsin
and then no we came back to England in
1996 we went to a puja there.
I don't quite know when it was bought
but I know
it was bought it was sold but later on
after Shimataji bought Kabela.
So Shimataji bought Kabela in 1990.
So okay so it was not six years which
is good I was trying to find out and I
couldn't really find out when it was
actually sold and I contacted David
Plal but he didn't have the records.
So the main building
belonged to Sahachi August
and there was the
adjustment building belonged to
a man called Mr Peace and this Mr Peace
became Mr War
because he was driven mad by the
building were
going on right into the night
and then also in the early hours of the
morning some visiting yogis who were
actually
not aware that we didn't have the whole
property to ourselves
were shoe beating on his doorstep
at four o'clock in the morning so
so but somehow he still survived you
know
all this year something must
help him wanting to stay there
because so he was
maybe he was a little bit mad after the
work was finished and there was not so
much banging
and shoe beating done.
Okay so if you can have the video now
it's a it just brings everything back
to us I think Shimetaji talking about it
because it was it is in Shuddhi camps and
it is an
inauguration of of Shuddhi camps.
Okay.
All right.
It's so very joyous to see you all here
assembled together.
I have to thank you very much
for getting such a nice place as this
Shuddhi camp. I have given it a new name
Shuddhi camp meaning cleansing camp
which is such an ancient building
it has gone through various stages of
history
and has kept the mark of all these times
and now you have to build up the future
on this land
on this spot
in this building.
Also I'm thankful to you for buying such
a nice comfortable car for Me.
I thought I was supposed to buy but
everybody said no we are supposed to
buy it for you Mother.
This is the first house that is in My name.
First house I owned
and this is the first car I have owned in My name.
I'm so proud that My children have bought it for Me.
They have with their love and affection
have bought this huge big place
as well as the car
for My dwelling as well as for My comfort.
As well as for My comfort.
When we come on this earth
when the incarnations descend
they don't need a dwelling at all.
They have a dwelling that's roof is the sky
and the clouds are the curtains
and grass is their bed and all the directions are the walls.
But when they reside in the heart of their children
in the heart of their bhaktas
the heart of their devotees
then these beautiful hearts create
something so artistic
reflecting the joy
of their own creation
like an artist who sees
beautiful creation of God Almighty
and feels the joy of that creation within himself
and then recreates it
according to his own
expression of love.
This is what you have done
by buying this house and by buying this car for Me.
I don't need any conveyance you know that.
But in the modern times
the conveyance has changed.
It started with a little mouse.
Changing into a car
maybe an aeroplane.
But actually
what is my conveyance is?
My conveyance
is your heart.
Only through your heart
I can be carried.
There's no other way out.
Your sincerity, your devotion
your love
that can only carry your Mother.
And this is a symbol of that.
Matter has only one facility that you can express your heart
through these material things.
Your nobility
your graciousness
your generosity
is expressed through matter.
I do that myself
and now you have done it this time.
I am thankful to you.
As you know very well
you are not a
that I cannot be contained into anything.
Neither in this house, neither in England
nor in India, nor in the whole universe.
I am rather too large.
But of course in your heart I can be.
And that is how your heart should be.
For me a comfortable place like a lotus
to relax
to realize my own
love.
When all these things happen
so much adoration
is poured on your Mother
you just get
boundless.
You spread out.
You reach
such spots
in the whole of humanity
everywhere
I can feel the worship.
The enjoyment of millions
of millions who died before
who are there and who will be there.
All this
expands you
into a very subtle
sensibility
of feeling
every suffering soul
every tortured person
every unhappy being
Rejna that's
what you want to see or should I play some more?
That's how it's
because it's just such an amazing video. It makes me feel
it makes me cry really.
So you see the Mother was very very
pleased. It was the first house as she said
that she actually owned herself. She was very pleased with the car that the yogis
bought as well and that was the white Mercedes
that she had. It was really very nice.
So I just want to
say about our coming to Shuddhi camps how
it all happened. After she met a
jibotit in the summer
we went there to
actually we didn't know how
long we were going to stay there. We just assumed
we were going to live there for as long as required
really. So Pat went there to do some
plumbing but so many things needed fixing
that actually as you will see from the photos
a lot of work went into fixing things
because the place was really just like
a church and brow.
In the very beginning you probably remember
it was even different
to what you see after you
went to live there. So it was like that.
Luckily we had the kitchen
and the kitchen was functional. There was only one
bathroom. Imagine in this huge place one
bathroom that was there and it was propped
up with very little support just like hanging in the
mid air.
So we left our London house
believing that we were just going to be
living there. When we arrived
we wished that we went there before we actually
moved because there was nowhere for us to be as family.
The men went to one room.
The ladies went to another room.
We had to leave our little son with
my stepson in our house in London.
Yogi is also living there so they were looking after him.
My stepson was doing A-levels at the time.
It was very normal
for Sahaja Yogi suddenly
to start to move somewhere and go
and do something else to what they were doing.
My husband was working for a
plumbing company so he left his job in the company
and went to do plumbing
in Shudi camps. We were so happy
to do this. We were regarded as the greatest
privilege we could have.
Of course the whole Shudi family
experience was very highly charged
with the feeling of building the foundations
of Sahaja Yoga in the heart of the universe.
It was just an amazing thing. We were
very keen to be good Yogis.
We used to get up at four o'clock every day, meditate
and
work. Actually
quite often 12 hours a day,
seven days a week, no weekends.
We had some short breaks for
food and it just showed
siesta because the men getting up at four o'clock in the morning
they were a little bit tired. But mind you we were all very young.
I mean comparatively young. So it was not a big deal
for us to do all these things. The men
work very hard physically. Now I remember
I just written some names down. I can read them
to you. There was I remember John Watson
son, Ferdi, Arnaldo from Italy, this huge
man. He was like a strong giant and he used to carry everything
that was heavy. And you will see him
in the photograph. He's really huge.
And there was Barry Humphrey, there was Erwin from Spain
whom I used to call a little Tim. There was
Lorang who was
at the time
he was doing carpentry. There was
Harry Bamra who now is living in Austria.
And he just got his realization
and he came to work and he still had very long hair.
And you know those days we didn't like the long hair.
But he had long hair because he was
sick and he gave up his turban. But he
was wondering whether to cut his hair
because his mom didn't want his hair to be cut.
It was very complicated. Anyway he was
very enthusiastic. He was very young. He was very good at his
hair. So he was amazing.
And then there were
many people coming and going. There were yogis from overseas
especially from France, Italy,
Australia. As far as
Australia, yogis came to help.
So actually it was an international project, not only
English project. Also Barry West was coming very often
from Cambridge to do electrics.
And there were English yogis coming for the weekends and sometimes
there were so many people staying overnight and coming
to work. There were very few ladies
cooking. So you can quite imagine it was quite a challenge to provide
all the meals and feed everyone. And
also the Italians came to stay and work.
And you see
Shrimataji put in charge an Indian girl called Nita,
young Indian girl. She was in charge of the kitchen because
we were supposed to eat only Indian food.
So you can imagine the Italians
getting poha, which is the Indian breakfast
full of chilies for breakfast.
And I mean they were saying
thank you very much. We are not hungry. But
they had to get used to all the Indian food.
But the thing is we found out later on that they were
actually having midnight siestas
with pasta.
So that's how probably they were not hungry in the morning,
obviously, for breakfast. So it was
quite funny sometimes. So it was so
wonderful to have such an international collective
coming to earth. And at one point
we brought our son Anand back from London
because Kevin was doing his studies and
we didn't expect the yogis to look after him for such a long time.
So he came to stay with us
from London. He was sleeping in the dormitory with the ladies.
But it was very challenging because he was
But it was very challenging because I was in the kitchen all day.
There was a lake at the back of the house.
You probably remember the lake with no fence.
I mean, then there was
a work on the roof and the things were falling down
all the time, off the roof. And at one point
when a huge wheelbarrow of rubble
fell next to him,
we decided, everybody decided
there was time for him to find another place.
And Shrimadaji sent him to the school in Rome.
So I was very glad because
I was always worried about him.
So now I would like to say something
about the roof. The biggest job, if you can see
behind me, you can see the roof.
It's huge. The roof is
huge. And the roof was
actually so bad. The roof was very, very bad.
So the first job that we had to do
during the summer and the beginning of autumn was
to do something about the roof. The roof had to be changed.
And I just want to read to you an extract from
Pat's book, because Pat is not here to
share anything, but I can share something that he
has written
in his book about the working on the roof
fly. To be involved in Sahaja Yoga
was to go through a process of change in outward collective
activity as well as inward experience.
One day Shrimadaji told us that the time had come for us to establish
permanent centres in Ashrams and the first of a series
of major collective Sahaj-built buildings project kicked
off when we bought a large house in Cambridgeshire.
Those who could afford contributed money
and those who could not volunteer work
and some of course contributed both.
So he says, I spent a great deal of time
there and while we work hard we had
a lot of fun as well. It was the first time I had been
out of the countryside for quite a while and I really enjoyed it.
We had not been there long when we discovered that
the roof and the top floor were riddled with wood rot
and that the weight of the roof was starting to push
out the big wooden beams lining the top of the outside walls
on which it rested. You can imagine.
We needed to dismantle the entire roof,
the large structure with two wings and numerous dormer windows
and rebuild it from scratch.
We attacked it without a second thought.
We had two or three carpenters but it was going to take a lot more
than that to get the job done and a couple
of experienced builders were discovered among
Sahaj Yogis in Australia and flown over to take charge
of a large number of king apprentices.
Standard practices were
to construct a huge scaffold roof like a bath
while the work went on but we could not afford this
and she told us that she would hold back the rain
as long as we worked as fast as we could.
We worked flat out seven days a week for about six weeks
and towards the end even the village postman was asking us to
hurry up because the logs were too big and we were not able to
get the job done.
He was asking us to hurry up because the local gardens needed some rain.
No, really, I mean he really believed it. He was saying
I can't believe it, it's not even the drop of rain, it was
autumn. It was a brilliant experience.
We had large sections of the top of the building
off at various points and standing on the top floor
of the building, we were surrounded by miles of beautiful countryside.
I love to lie on the roof at night
and look at the Milky Way which was wonderfully clear
away from the light pollution of London.
So this is what Pat is saying. I have just a few words to say
how it all ended. So in December
we still were working away and I was thinking
because it was quite cold there really, the heating was not
working. We were just like Antoinette can imagine.
But I mean it was morbid, this was an open
countryside. So it was getting really cold
and I was thinking how am I to survive
the winter. But Shimataji invited
us to
the India tour. I went on the India tour and
I attended my step-sons' cabin wedding as well
during the tour. So it was just perfect, it worked out, everything
was done beautifully. So he got married
actually during the tour.
I went back to Shudi camps afterwards and stayed until
March 1997
by which time Pat found himself going to
another project, the ground house of Pratistan
was going to be built. So
the work on the house continued, many yogis
contributed, there were so many yogis coming and going and living there
and many new people got established as well
because it was a collective place like this big collective ashram
like Kabela. And of course
we had children's camps in Shudi
camps and I must tell you Antoinette, the first camp
was for one week and we did a play.
It actually started
with the play written by yoginis and
the children as well and they rehearsed
for the whole week.
They built the props themselves, they made the costumes themselves
we had puja, we had havens, we had lots of things
during that first
children's camp and there were many more to follow.
We also had in Shudi camps we had the first Yuva Shakti
seminar. So I have some photos
but I'm not going to share them this time.
Sadly the clinic that Shimadaji wanted to establish
never really took off properly
and in the end Shudi
camps towards the end was not much used.
So Shimadaji's husband retired
and so there was no need for him to be
in the UK, really to live in the UK and Shimadaji
decided that the warm climate of Italy
would be more agreeable for the family to
to live there, to come there and
for her work to continue in Europe from Italy.
So Shimadaji bought Cabela in 1990.
So now photos and
over to Derek.
I can't see Derek at the minute Gresina, so could you comment on the photos for now as well?
Sorry I'm not in the photo, the photo is there, the photo is displayed there.
So this is what was the first one and then I'll just go as they got downloaded.
Gresina will be speaking.
Derek can say things if you want.
So the first one was just the front of the house from the
small, the land which we had in the UK
and the small, the land which we had in front of the house.
Later on the person who bought the house bought more land.
The staircase there, the second photo
was the staircase going up to
the first floor landing but all that was ripped out
and a concrete one was put in
which you'll see the photos of later.
That's in the front area
as you go in on the left through the front doors.
That's outside.
We replastered all the walls and ceilings there.
I remember the first delivery was 300 plaster boards
and we had a team of people.
We had, this is Gazebo which was put up in the
garden for one of the poojas there.
And then we had the
the second one, the second one, the second one, the third one.
With Baba Mama's group
came over.
That was all work was going on.
Everyone mucking in the front of the house.
We had 50 Austrians come
over to help out.
That's the peacocks
which used to go and peck
the car hubs when they saw themselves.
They're reflections.
They're inside as well.
When older people
come over,
when all the roof was stripped off,
all the wood was placed outside and someone came along
and said, I can take it away for you. We said, we'll let you know.
We discovered it was hundreds of years old oak so we sold
that wood which helped pay for the roof.
It was very valuable.
The previous owners who bought it, there was a big fire
and they covered all the bad fire up with sheets of plasterboard
so it wasn't revealed until we
had a quick look.
Also, Shumash's bedroom,
the whole actual room was covered
and the whole attic was lowered down
to accommodate more room.
We remodelled the main columns in the
main room. That's the main room before it was done up.
We had lots of ladies who were doing, like you see, the stripping of the paint,
helping with putting up all the cornice work.
John Walkinson was making it in the shed outside.
That's Finbar. He came along and helped out a lot.
Now,
Nalda and Garrah from Derby.
Before and after photos. This is coming up from the first floor landing.
That's just outside Shumash's bedroom on the right at the end of the
room.
We had a lot of people coming in from the first floor.
Some of the doors we took and we
soaked them, had them dipped.
Myself and our Nalda worked together.
He helped me with the plastering.
Very good decorator as well.
That's the kitchen extension, which was there when we arrived.
All new doors and windows.
There's Paddy.
That's Dawn. The other one was Marilyn.
There's Marilyn again. Dr Bogdan
and his wife.
It's Harry.
This is the, I think we've got somebody to
do the metal work for the concrete floor.
A few days before Shumash's arrival, there was no staircase.
We'd ripped it out and then they poured the concrete
and then the day before,
some sahaja yogis turned up from Italy and we said, do you do tiling?
They said yes. We said that's your job. They started laying down the tiles.
Before there was nothing there. It was just a space. They laid down the
tiles on the concrete staircase
and it was all touch and go.
That was the landing coming up. That's the finished staircase.
On the left, going up the staircase,
after they put the tiles, I had to mix up plaster of
Paris and go up the staircase while they were doing the arty outside.
When I finished, somebody was coming up behind me with a paintbrush.
You can see there, a little bit of a white, a little bit of a white.
I was just going to put a little bit of paint on the top of the staircase.
I was going to put a little bit of paint on the brush. You can see there the gaps in the wall
and the people doing the tiling.
Sahaja Yogi on the right, he was an Austrian policeman
and he didn't feel vibrations, but when we went to Kabbalah
afterwards, he got worked on and then he could feel them.
In Shri Kamsa, he couldn't feel anything. Somebody may know his name.
So, that's it.
Thank you.
That's fantastic.
Derek, did you also have a particular anecdote that you wanted to tell?
Yes. When I was, I was asked to come to
Shri Kamsa to work and I asked her,
do you want me to move in? And she said yes.
So, I was living in Birmingham, so I assumed it was going to be a big job.
She said, I have some work for you. So, I came down and moved into Shri Kamsa
and then there were people there already,
already started, but I knew that she wanted me to do plastering and
every wall and ceiling had to be done. So, I was thinking, it's quite a big job
and I won't be able to manage it on my own if it wants it to be done quickly.
So, one day I was thinking of that and I was thinking,
I need some help. And all of a sudden, we didn't have more phones in those days.
There was a phone call from Antonio saying, Shreemashti is on her way.
She's going to be there within the hour. So, I was thinking, oh no, Shreemashti has read my mind.
So, we were all there.
I ran around telling everyone, Shreemashti is going to be here soon.
So, then at the time, it was a gravel driveway
and there was a whole load of rubble from the top of the road.
A whole load of rubble from the top first floor window out.
There was that much rubble there. We didn't get skips
at the time. And then Shreemashti's car arrived
and there was quite a few people
working there. She came out. They did the RT
and then I heard her say, where's Fergie?
So, I walked over and she said, what's happening
with the work? And everyone was looking at me and thinking, don't say
nothing. And I said, I can't not say anything.
So, she said to me, what do you need? I said, well, we need two more
plasterers. We need a carpenter for the windows.
We need a plumber. There's Pat. Even though he could do
plumbing, he didn't know how to heat engineering. How to
provide the heating in all the rooms in the house. So, she said
to me, well, just get them. And I was
saying that
at the time, I think it was a Saturday, so
the next day was a Sunday, she said, just put an advert in the paper. And she asked me
if I knew any other plasterers. And I said, I'd left London and I don't
really know anybody. So, she said, put an advert in the paper. So, I said,
okay. And at the time, somebody said to me, oh, do you really
need these people? I was like, I said, I had to say yes.
Actually, I recorded the conversation, so I can upload that
at some time, just for proof.
And so, after Shemashi
asked what we needed, we got what we needed. We didn't
even have tools. So, I had to have a whip round of the whole collective and say, look,
if you've got any tools that
you've got spare, because they said the money is only for Shemashi's work,
but we needed hammers, we needed lots of tools. So, lots of Sajogi's donated
tools. I remember Gresham was saying that the place
was freezing. So, I remember that
the
local leader, Jim, he went and bought some
Calogast heaters, which saved the day.
When you breathe, you can feel the cold breathing out. So, that
was fine. So, we just, that six weeks, we
worked constantly. And then two weeks before
the inauguration, we had a 24-hour shift.
So, as you went to sleep, someone else would take your space.
So, we were just working around the clock. And the story with Mr. Peace
was that we, I remember
he called the police a few times, and luckily I was there when the police arrived.
And they said, oh, we've had a few
complaints about some noise. So, I said, really?
So, when the police knocked on the door, I had to say, oh,
everyone be quiet now, you know. So, I said, look, don't worry, I'll sort it out.
So, we managed to sort it
out. So, we kept going. But one time Mr. Peace came in
into the kitchen, and I had to sort of pacify him and said, look,
you know, we're trying to finish it quickly and everything like that.
And, you know, he was all right. So, in the end, everything worked
out. And that was fine. So, coming up to,
there's a video which somebody's posted before where it shows
Sharmatazhi arriving. And on that arrival,
I remember it was just last minute.
And they'd just put, the Italian sardiogies had just
put the towels on the staircase. I had to go up the staircase
filling it in. And as Sharmatazhi was coming in,
she walked up the staircase. I remember rushing off,
taking off my overalls, throwing them down and just holding my hands out.
But unfortunately, the sardiogies who were doing the plumbing on
CP's shower weren't so lucky. So,
they were there around the corner trying to fix things.
And it was just, they were trying to do it while
water was pouring out, while
the facilities weren't
connected. So, that was quite funny. But before that,
when Sharmatazhi did arrive, she did tell, I don't know if
people know, but she did say to me that she actually wanted shooting camps
to be in Scotland. She said, Lord Shiva's in Scotland
and if we had had shooting camps in Scotland,
the vibrations would be coming down to England from Scotland.
But she said a few people didn't want to go north
of England. So, she like
said, okay, Cambridge is a little way, I don't know, it's about 50 miles
outside London. So, at least that
was like helping the country. But she wanted to go further because when
Linda was up in Scotland, that was sending vibrations down
to the country. So, she did stay there for a while
and one time. And after
I actually stayed in Cambridge
till 1999 because I thought there's always going to be
maintenance. So, I used to go back there to work on the
house now and again. And then when it was sold, the owner
asked me to do some work. I had to do some work
on the house to get it ready, even though we'd sold it.
So, I remember going there and doing work.
And we, everybody, it was
like Sharmatazhi had it as an excuse for us to get on. So, different
nationalities came and we had different, obviously different poojas
and there's lots of photos. But the main thing was for us to
get together and share things
between us. Because after that, Sharmatazhi asked me, like Pat, to go to
Pratishthana, I went there. And then after that, Kibela.
And so, all the time, I know
Antoinette mentioned Shelstrom Road. I moved into Shelstrom Road
in 1981 and stayed there for months and months while the work,
Sharmatazhi had work going on. And then afterwards, we had,
there was a hotel called Brahman Gardens. We moved into
there while the house was, her house was being dubbed. So, she used to travel
from Brahman Gardens to
to, back and forward. She used to
she used to go from the hotel to Brahman Gardens. So,
that was, so there was lots of different houses. But it was just
an excuse for us to spread vibrations with ourselves and
just enjoy each other's company. And the story
about what was happening was that a lot of people
could not come to England for poojas. So, having
the poojas in Italy was a good reason
because lots of people from Russia, lots of Eastern European countries, they couldn't just
England's an island and they don't necessarily like lots of people coming here
unless you've got a good visa. When you're in Europe, you can just drive around.
So, Sharmatazhi going to Italy would then enable
us to, more collective people
to meet up because she also mentioned, we had one pooja
where we hired a plane amongst ourselves and 180 of us
travelled to Italy. And there was a talk where she
explains that the spirit had to
go to the soul. Most people know that talk. So, there's lots of connections
there. So, that's it.
Wow.
Golly, what an evening we've had.
What an evening we've had.